[(0, "b'6E vs 6e: IndiGo takes Mahindra Electric to court alleging trademark infringement'", 'Sukalp Sharma', '2024-12-03', "b'Indias largest airline IndiGo has filed a case in the Delhi High Court against automobile major Mahindra & Mahindras (M&M) electric mobility armMahindra Electric Automobile (MEAL)for using the airlines identifier code 6E in the name of its recently unveiled electric vehicle BE 6e. IndiGo has the registration for the 6E trademark and uses it extensively in its branding and advertising.'b'The 6E mark is an integral part of IndiGos identity for the past 18 years and is a registered trademark that holds strong global recognition. The 6E mark, whether standalone or in its variants and formative forms, is extensively used by IndiGo for its offerings and for goods and services provided in collaboration with trusted partners. Any unauthorised use of the 6E mark, whether standalone or in any form, constitutes an infringement of IndiGos rights, reputation, and goodwill. IndiGo is committed to taking all necessary and appropriate steps to safeguard its intellectual property and brand identity, the airline said in a statement.'b'MEAL unveiled its electric origin SUVs  BE 6e and XEV 9e  on November 26, and has applied for trade mark registration for BE 6e. In a filing with the stock exchanges, M&M said that it does not see any conflict with IndiGo pertaining the trademarks, and that along with MEAL, it is in talks with the airline to arrive at an amicable solution.'b'the Company (M&M) does not see a conflict as Mahindras mark is BE 6e, not the standalone 6E. It differs fundamentally from IndiGos 6E, which represents an airline, eliminating any risk of confusion. The distinct styling further emphasizes their uniqueness, M&M said, adding that the trade mark registration filed by the MEAL is specifically for the vehicle class.'b'The Company and MEAL has taken on board the concerns that InterGlobe Aviation Limited (IndiGo) have to infringement of their goodwill, which was not our intention. The Company and MEAL are engaged in discussions with them to find an amicable solution, the automobile company said.'b'The case came up for hearing before the Delhi High Court on Tuesday, and is now likely to come up for hearing next week.'b'The starting price for the BE 6e is Rs 18.90 lakh and it will be launched in phased manner from January end. MEAL expects to start deliveries towards the end of February or early March.'b''"), (1, "b'Swiggy cuts losses marginally in Q2'", 'George Mathew', '2024-12-04', "b'Food and grocery delivery platform Swiggy Ltd has marginally narrowed its consolidated net loss in the second quarter of financial year 2024-25 to Rs 625.53 crore from Rs 657 crore a year ago. However, sequentially, the loss increased as the firm had reported a consolidated loss of Rs 611 crore in the first quarter of FY25.'b'Total income rose sharply to Rs 3,686.26 crore in the September quarter as against Rs 2,850.52 crore a year ago.'b'Swiggy, which was listed on November 13 this year, saw a robust growth in its food delivery as well as quick commerce verticals during the quarter under review. Zomato, which was listed three years ago, recently reported a sharp jump of five times in consolidated net profit to Rs 176 crore in Q2FY25.'b'Sriharsha Majety, MD & Group CEO, Swiggy, said, The remarkable performance of our food business operations comes on the back of strong innovation and execution. We are constantly trying to anticipate and improve the consumers experience. The recent launch of Bolt- our 10-minute delivery service is an example of that.'b'Similarly in quick commerce, we are anticipating and responding to consumer behaviour to bring more and more convenience to urban households. Instamart today is present in 54 cities and delivers more than 32000 unique items, within an average delivery time of 13 minutes, he said.'b''"), (2, "b'Sebi cancels SME IPO of Trafiksol ITS Technologies, orders to refund money'", 'George Mathew', '2024-12-04', "b'Market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has cancelled the SME IPO of Trafiksol ITS Technologies and asked the company to refund the money to the investors for alleged questionable dealings with a shell entity.'b'The IPO which was open for subscription between September 10 and 12, 2024 oversubscribed 345.65 times. The issue was priced at the upper end of the price band (Rs 70 per share) and Rs 44.87 crore was raised through the issue.'b'After the closure of the issue and allotment of shares, a complaint was received by SEBI and BSE from the Small Investors Welfare Association  SIREN which alleged that the objects of the issue by the company included purchase of software valued at Rs 17.70 crore from a vendor which had questionable financials and failed to file its annual financial statements with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. The BSE then in consultation with the SEBI deferred the listing of the shares of the company.'b'Based on the findings, it is reasonable to conclude that the third-party vendor (TPV) in question is a shell entity. The TPVs office was found locked during a site inspection, and its financial statements for FY22 to FY24, submitted in response to allegations, were obtained under questionable circumstances as it was signed by the auditor on same day it was submitted to the BSE by the MB (merchant banker), Sebi said in its 16-page order.'b'This was one day after BSE in consultation with Sebi put on hold the listing of the shares of the company and initiated an examination. Further, the client list and credentials of its directors, presented in its profile, were fabricated. Apart from the above, the ex-directors sworn statement that the company was sold for a nominal sum of Rs. 20,000 reinforces the conclusion that the TPV lacked the technical expertise and operational capacity to execute a complex project such as ICCC software, Sebi said.'b'Further, the client list and credentials of its directors, presented in its profile, were fabricated. Apart from the above, the ex-directors sworn statement that the company was sold for a nominal sum of Rs 20,000 reinforces the conclusion that the TPV lacked the technical expertise and operational capacity to execute a complex project such as ICCC software, Sebi order said.'b'The question of whether the quotation from the TPV was part of a scheme to divert IPO proceeds will remain moot due to the events triggered by the complaint and subsequent regulatory intervention. This, however, does not take away the fact that the company relied on a sham entity and participated in a cover-up when the credentials of the TPV were being examined, Sebi said.'b'I cannot also lose sight of the fact that the funds of the investors who have been allotted shares in the IPO have remained locked-in for close to three months now. Therefore, the issue cannot be put on hold till the other findings of the Investigation are adjudicated, Sebi Wholetime Director Ashwani Bhatia said in the order. Balancing these considerations, the most prudent course of action is to direct the company to refund the money raised through the IPO, Sebi said.'b'The company may approach the market afresh after the ongoing proceedings initiated by SEBI are concluded and subject to any directions issued therein, it said.'b'Incorporated in March 2018, Noida-based Trafiksol says it offers comprehensive solutions for intelligent transportation systems and automation, including software development, consultancy and supply services. Our offerings encompass ready-made and customized software solutions, operating systems, business applications, and computer games across all platforms, it said in the IPO prospectus. Jitendra Narayan Das is the chairman and MD of the company.'b'The company made a revenue of Rs 65.81 crore and a net profit of Rs 12.01 crore for FY2024.'b'The primary market had witnessed a flood of SME IPOs with oversubscription of up to 2,000 times in one instance and huge listing premium in the recent months. This had prompted many small entities to go for SME IPOs, forcing the Sebi and exchanges to tighten the SME IPO norms.'b''"), (3, "b'Bitcoin tops $100,000 for first time on optimism over Trumps crypto plans'", 'Null', '2024-12-05', "b'Bitcoin rose above $100,000 for the first time on Thursday as the election of Republican Donald Trump as president of the United States spurred expectations that his administration will create a friendly regulatory environment for cryptocurrencies.'b'Bitcoin has more than doubled in value this year and is up about 45% in the four weeks since Trumps sweeping election victory, which also saw a slew of pro-crypto lawmakers being elected to Congress.'b'It last traded at $100,027 as of 0240 GMT, up 2.2% on the previous session, after earlier rising as high as $100,277.'b'Were witnessing a paradigm shift. After four years of political purgatory, bitcoin and the entire digital asset ecosystem are on the brink of entering the financial mainstream, said Mike Novogratz, founder and CEO of US crypto firm Galaxy Digital.'b'This momentum is fueled by institutional adoption, advancements in tokenization and payments, and a clearer regulatory path.'b'More than 16 years after its creation, bitcoin appears on the cusp of mainstream acceptance, despite naysayers and a history of controversies.'b'Bitcoin crossing $100,000 is more than just a milestone; its a testament to shifting tides in finance, technology, and geopolitics, said Justin DAnethan, a Hong Kong-based independent crypto analyst.'b'The figure not that long ago dismissed as fantasy, stands as a reality.'b'Trump embraced digital assets during his campaign, promising to make the United States the crypto capital of the planet and to accumulate a national stockpile of bitcoin.'b'Crypto investors see an end to increased scrutiny under US Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler, who said last week he would step down in January when Trump takes office.'b'On Wednesday, Trump said he would nominate Paul Atkins to run the Securities and Exchange Commission. Atkins, a former SEC commissioner, has been involved in crypto policy as co-chair of the Token Alliance, which works to develop best practices for digital asset issuances and trading platforms, and the Chamber of Digital Commerce.'b'A slew of crypto companies including Ripple, Kraken and Circle are jostling for a seat on Trumps promised crypto advisory council, seeking a say in his planned overhaul of US policy, according to several digital asset industry executives.'b'Trumps businesses may also have a stake in the sector. He unveiled a new crypto business, World Liberty Financial, in September. Although details about the business have been scarce, investors have taken his personal interest in the sector as a bullish signal.'b'Trumps social media company is in advanced talks to buy crypto trading firm Bakkt, the Financial Times reported last week, citing two people with knowledge of the talks.'b'Trump Media and Technology Group, which operates Truth Social, is close to an all-stock acquisition of Bakkt, according to the FT report.Billionaire Elon Musk, a major Trump ally, is also a proponent of cryptocurrencies.'b'Bitcoins rebound from a slide below $16,000 in late 2022 has been rapid, boosted by the approval of US-listed bitcoin exchange-traded funds in January this year.'b'The Securities and Exchange Commission had long attempted to block ETFs from investing in bitcoin, citing investor protection concerns, but the products have allowed more investors, including institutional investors, to gain exposure to bitcoin.'b'More than $4 billion has streamed into US-listed bitcoin exchange-traded funds since the election.'b'We were trading basically sideways for about seven months, then immediately after November 5, US investors resumed buying hand-over-fist, said Joe McCann, CEO and founder of Asymmetric, a Miami digital assets hedge fund.'b'There was a strong debut for options on BlackRocks ETF in November with call options  bets on the price going up  substantially more popular than puts. McCann calculated the put to call ratio at about 22 to one.'b'Crypto-related stocks have soared along with the bitcoin price, with shares in bitcoin miner MARA Holdings up around 65% in November.Yet the rise is not without critics.'b'Two years ago, the industry was wracked by scandal with the collapse of the FTX crypto exchange and the jailing of its founder Sam Bankman-Fried.'b'The cryptocurrency industry also has been criticized for its massive energy usage, while crypto crime remains a concern, too.'b'Market participants are keeping a close eye on what happens now that bitcoin has broken above $100,000, with investors and speculators possibly looking to pocket some of their recent gains.'b'But once we flush out those sell orders, this could go higher still, and very rapidly, said Steven McClurg, founder of Canary Capital, a digital assets investment firm. He said he expects bitcoins price to hit $120,000 by Christmas.'b''"), (4, "b'India had limited success in capturing China Plus One opportunity: NITI Aayog'", 'Ravi Dutta Mishra', '2024-12-04', "b'Even as a new NITI Aayog report, the Trade Watch, released on Wednesday, says that India has seen limited success so far in capturing the China Plus One strategy adopted by multinational companies looking to de-risk their supply chains, NITI Aayog CEO BVR Subrahmanyam has suggested that trade policies under US President-elect Donald Trump could result in a potential economic boom for India, driven by significant trade diversion in global trade. Whatever Trump has announced so far, which is likely to come up there are opportunities. We are the man at first slip. The ball is coming in our direction. Whether we hold the catch or drop it is for us to decide. There will be huge disruption, and if we prepare for it, there will be a massive boom due to trade diversion, Subrahmanyam said during a press briefing.'b'This comes just a day after the two large economies, the US and China, entered into a fresh trade conflict, imposing tit-for-tat trade restrictions on each other. After the US announced export restrictions on computer chip-making equipment, software, and high-bandwidth memory chips, China retaliated on Tuesday by banning exports of gallium, germanium, antimony, and other key high-tech materials to the US.'b'The fresh trade war is significant because connecting economies, perceived as neutral and not aligned with either the US or China, such as India, have benefited from the geopolitical tensions between the two nations since Trumps first term. Responding to a question about Trumps recent tariff threats, the former commerce secretary noted that the US is Indias largest trading partner and that India-US relations extend beyond trade, being deeply rooted in geopolitical and cultural dimensions. There is a huge upside in improving trade in goods and services. There is 70 per cent of world trade where our share is less than 1 per cent. This is where the opportunity lies. We need to explore new markets and new products, Subrahmanyam said. On a proposal for a 25 per cent hike in steel import duties, Suman Bery, Vice Chairperson of NITI Aayog, commented: There are points of principle and there are points of pragmatism. If someone produces cheaply in the world and others are buying, you are reducing your competitiveness by putting up a barrier, and there are downstream consequences for domestic market users of the product.'b'He added, In this particular case, we are talking about a source of supply which is not considered a market economy and is relatively opaque in its means of support to its industry, which is exhibiting a way of oversupply.'b'Notably, in Q1 FY25, Indian iron and steel exports experienced a massive decline (33 per cent), primarily due to weak domestic demand and excess capacity in China, which led to an oversupply of steel in global markets, the NITI Aayog report stated.'b'On Trumps trade policies, Arvind Virmani, member NITI Aayog, remarked that a general 10 per cent tariff by the US on all imports would not negatively affect India. But a 60 per cent tariff on China will open up opportunities for India. In the short term, there could be a shock, Virmani said.'b'The Trade Watch report, meanwhile, said that countries such as Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, and Malaysia have emerged as bigger beneficiaries of the China Plus One strategy. Factors such as cheaper labour, simplified tax laws, lower tariffs, and proactiveness in signing Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) have played a crucial role in expanding their export shares.'b'The report also highlighted that ongoing trade fragmentation stems from strict export control measures imposed by the US on Chinese goods to limit Chinas growth and technological progress. While China remains Indias leading competitor across most export categories, countries like Brazil, Indonesia, and South Africa generally trail India. However, Malaysia and Thailand outperform India in select sectors, such as electrical machinery.'b'For India, the iron and steel industry, which represents 23.5 per cent of its EU exports, faces the highest exposure under the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM), the report said. Indian firms could incur tariffs of 2035 per cent, leading to higher costs, reduced competitiveness, and lower demand in the EU market. Compliance costs are also expected to rise due to the requirement for detailed emissions reporting, the report said.'b'Several studies assessing the EUs CBAM identify African and Asian countries as the most vulnerable to its effects. CBAM, aimed at preventing carbon leakage, will apply to high-risk imports such as cement, iron and steel, aluminium, fertilisers, electricity, and hydrogen starting in January 2026. It mandates the purchase of CBAM certificates, reflecting the carbon emissions linked to these goods, the report added.'b''"), (5, "b'IndiGo ranked among worst airlines globally by AirHelp; airline refutes survey, questions its credibility'", 'Sukalp Sharma', '2024-12-04', "b'Indias largest airline IndiGo has been listed among the worlds worst airlines by European air passenger claims processing and facilitating agency AirHelp, which has ranked the airline at the 103rd spot out of a total of 109 airlines in the rankings. Reacting to the AirHelp rankings, IndiGo has refuted the survey and even questioned its credibility.'b'AirHelp releases an annual ranking of international airlines and airports. The rankings for airlines are based on three criteria  on-time performance, customer opinion, and processing of compensation claims. According to AirHelp, the three criteria contribute to the airlines score in equal measure, or 33.33 per cent each.'b'In its 2024 report, AirHelp gave IndiGo a score of 4.80, placing it at the 103rd spot among 109 airlines in the list. The only other Indian airline on the list is Air India, which has been ranked 61 with a score of 6.15. Brussels Airlines has been ranked at the pole position, followed by Qatar Airways, and United Airlines with scores of 8.12, 8.11, and 8.04, respectively.'b'Indias aviation regulator DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation), publishes data on airline punctuality and customer complaints monthly. IndiGo has consistently scored high on punctuality and has the lowest customer complaint ratio for an airline of its size and scale of operations. The data published in the survey by AirHelp, an EU claim processing agency, does not report the sample size from India, and neither takes into account the methodology or compensation guidelines used by the global aviation industry  casting a doubt on its credibility, IndiGo said in a statement.'b'IndiGo is Indias largest airline with a domestic market share of over 60 per cent. It is also among the top airlines globally by passenger volumes. In 2023, it flew over 100 million passengers across its domestic and international network.'b'As Indias most preferred airline, IndiGo refutes the findings of this survey and reiterates its promise of on-time, affordable, courteous and hassle-free travel experience for its customers, the airline added.'b'According to DGCA data, the airline has among the lowest ratio of passenger complaints to passengers ferried. In the DGCAs October air traffic report, IndiGos number of complaints per 10,000 passengers carried was 0.2. Vitara, which has now merged with Air India, was the only carrier that fared better than IndiGo in terms of passenger complaints in October, the DGCA data shows.'b'The DGCA monthly traffic report also mentions on-time performance of airlines for four metropolitan airports  Bangalore, Delhi, Hyderabad, and Mumbai. In the October report, IndiGo was at the top of the list with an on-time performance score of 71.9 per cent.'b'It is not clear if AirHelp takes DGCA data into consideration for its rankings. According to the agency, it collects data from multiple commercial vendors and creates its own sophisticated database of flight data. AirHelp claims that it cross-references its statistics with a variety of reliable sources including government agencies, airport databanks, flight-tracking vendors and historical resources.'b''"), (6, "b'If government is going to protect steel producers, needs to protect 8 lakh MSMEs too: EEPC Chairman'", 'Ravi Dutta Mishra', '2024-12-04', "b'Any duty hike on steel imports to protect steel manufacturers will have a detrimental impact on small industries that are already grappling with numerous challenges, Pankaj Chadha, Chairman of the Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) of India, said on Wednesday.'b'This follows reports that the Ministry of Steel has proposed a 25 per cent increase in duty to shield domestic manufacturers from steel being dumped into India by China, as well as a surge in imports from several countries with which India has a free-trade agreement (FTA).'b'MSMEs are not being invited to the ongoing consultations to address trade-related issues faced by the steel industry. Discussions about a duty hike will hurt the downstream industry. Our perspective is straightforward: if protection is being provided for steel producers, there must also be protection for MSMEs. You cannot have a situation where producers are safeguarded while the 8 lakh MSMEs are left without support, Chadha said.'b'He added that while the balance sheets of large steel manufacturers remain robust, those of around 8 lakh MSMEs are in a precarious state. Within EEPC, 50 per cent of export value is contributed by MSME members, and 60 per cent of its members are MSMEs.'b'How will MSMEs compete with international players? The steel sector should be addressed, but not at the expense of other sectors. For instance, Japanese steel shipments are currently stuck at ports due to delays in issuing no-objection certificates (NOCs). These products are unavailable in India, and shipments have been stalled for the last three months, Chadha said.'b'Meanwhile, a report by the Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI) stated that Indias steel imports are neither excessive nor unwarranted. According to the report, half of these imports consist of critical raw materials for domestic production, while 40 per cent are specialised items that India does not produce in sufficient quantities.'b'Despite this, restrictive import policies continue to stifle the industry. The Steel Ministrys inefficient processes not only burden businesses but also risk exemplifying the challenges of Indias business environment. Immediate, high-level intervention is essential to streamline procedures and support the growth of the steel sector, the GTRI report said.'b'Ajay Srivastava, a former trade officer and head of GTRI, argued that Indias large steel producers, despite claiming hardship from imports, have prospered due to protective policies. He said that domestic stainless steel prices are 2530 per cent higher than comparable imported steel for certain thicknesses, even after accounting for duties.'b'By monopolising raw materials and prioritising supply to their own downstream ventures, these large firms have forced many small businesses to close. This monopolistic behaviour warrants investigation by the Competition Commission of India (CCI), especially given the record profits reported by major players in recent years, Srivastava said.'b''"), (7, "b'Spike in cocaine, contraband cigarettes, and currency seizures: Indias anti-smuggling agency'", 'Aggam Walia', '2024-12-04', "b'Seizures of drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine, contraband cigarettes, and illicit foreign currency by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) have seen a sharp rise over the past year. According to DRIs latest Smuggling in India report, the agency conducted 47 cocaine seizures worth Rs 975 crore in FY24more than double the number recorded in the previous financial year. The quantity of cocaine smuggled into India, primarily through airports, increased by 9 per cent to 107 kg during the same period.'b'Methamphetamine smuggling has also spiked, especially in northeastern states like Assam and Mizoram, according to DRIs latest bulletin. While FY24 recorded meth seizures of 136 kg, the first half of FY25 alone saw 123 kg confiscated in 11 cases.'b'The bulletin highlights that free trade warehousing zones in West Asia, particularly in Dubai, are becoming major transit hubs for contraband cigarette smuggling from Southeast Asia to India. The first half of FY25 saw cigarette seizures climb by 19 per cent, reaching 3.95 crore sticks, compared to 3.31 crore sticks during the same period in FY24.'b'Illicit foreign currency seizures have also surged. DRI officials seized Rs 13.8 crore in foreign currency during the first half of FY25, surpassing the Rs 12.4 crore confiscated in all of FY24. Additionally, the agency uncovered a Rs 576 crore trade-based money laundering (TBML) racket. The scheme involved importing cheap electrical goods and cosmetics at inflated prices to channel foreign exchange out of the country.'b'In FY24, DRI seized 1,319 kg of smuggled gold, slightly lower than over 1,450 kg confiscated in FY23. Land routes, particularly from Myanmar, Bangladesh, and Nepal, contributed to 55 per cent of the seizures while air routes, increasingly from certain African and Central Asian countries, contributed to 36 per cent.'b'Gold smuggling in India has evolved with smuggling syndicates now employing mules with diverse profiles, including foreign nationals and families, alongside insiders. Smuggling syndicates even leverage international departure gates, where airport workers and other staff collude in smuggling gold from transit passengers, the report said.'b'In a major heist in July, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) seized 108 kg of gold being smuggled on mules by two porters in eastern Ladakh. The investigation was handed over to DRI given the wider ramifications, which has led to the arrest of ten people involved in the smuggling.'b'In recent years, India has witnessed a marked increase in the availability and use of a wide range of narcotic substances, the report said. Comparison of narcotics seizures over the past five years indicates an increasing trend for cocaine, while both heroin and ganja have shown a decreasing trend in terms of quantity, it added.'b'In FY24, DRI booked 109 cases involving 8,224 kg of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. This included 107 kg of cocaine (Rs 975 crore), 49 kg of heroin (Rs 365 crore), 236 kg of mephedrone (Rs 357 crore), and 136 kg of methamphetamine (Rs 275 crore).'b'Seizures of contraband cigarettes stood at 9.1 crore sticks in FY24 valued at Rs 179 crore. The majority of the smuggling was through sea routes.'b'Apart from the Myanmar- India border, the smuggling syndicates based in South East Asia and the Middle East carry out major operations through sea route. Free Trade Warehousing Zones in the Middle East are emerging as a major transit point from where cigarette- concealed consignments are shipped to India. Though illicit cigarettes are reportedly manufactured in certain South East Asian countries, it appears that the consignments are initially shipped to Dubai from southeast Asia and then re-routed to India, the bulletin noted.'b'In five operations, DRI seized 53.5 kg of elephant tusks in FY24. Other wildlife items seized across the country include leopard skins, live pangolins, pangolin scales, parakeets, live peacocks, peacock feathers, and Indian turtles. The Wildlife Protection Act was amended in 2023 to authorize customs officers under Section 50(1)(c) to seize illegally traded wildlife within the country, effective from April 1, 2023.'b'The rivers in Indias Gangetic plain teem with life including many indigenous species of turtles. In a major crackdown, DRI conducted a series of operations and rescued 643 turtles, the bulletin said.'b''"), (8, "b'DGCA to streamline norms for Indian airlines wet-leased plane operations'", 'Null', '2024-12-04', "b'Aviation watchdog DGCA will soon come out with streamlined regulations for wet-leasing of planes by Indian airlines that will also entail enhanced oversight of the aircraft, amid airlines looking to operate more planes to meet rising travel demand.'b'With persisting supply chain woes, there is a delay in aircraft deliveries and to meet the near-term needs, carriers are opting for planes on dry and wet leases.'b'A senior official in the know told PTI that the efforts are on to streamline the regulations for wet-leasing of planes to assist in the growth of the aviation.'b'Realities of the engine problems cannot be wished away suddenly and on the other side, the possible routes are also increasing all the time, the official said.'b'Many planes of IndiGo are on the ground due to Pratt & Whitney engine issues and the number of such aircraft is slowly coming down.Generally, wet-leasing of an aircraft involves the leasing of foreign aircraft, along with crew, maintenance and insurance. The plane is also under the operational control of the foreign operator (lessor) and subject to regulatory requirements of the foreign civil aviation authority concerned.'b'In the case of dry-leasing, only the aircraft is taken by the carrier.'b'Currently, IndiGo and SpiceJet operate wet-leased planes while Air India fly some dry-leased aircraft. After stakeholder consultations, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is working on streamlining the wet-leasing regulations.'b'Under the existing regulations, DGCA does not have the full control over a wet-leased aircraft. There are also certain restrictions in terms of wet-leasing of planes for new or additional routes.'b'The official said certain restrictions will be done away with to facilitate wet-leasing of planes by the domestic carriers. Among other requirements, all the flight and maintenance records of the aircraft concerned need to be submitted to DGCA. In the case of wet-leased planes, there are different norms. Right now, Indian carriers are looking at wet-leasing where only pilots will be from the foreign entity while rest of the crew will be from the carriers.'b'Also, the pilots of the wet-leased planes are subject to regulations of the foreign regulator concerned, including FDTL (Flight Duty Time Limitations).'b'In the current scenario where there are aircraft on the ground, if it suits the Indian carriers, we need to assess the procedures properly and facilitate them to have aircraft on wet lease, the official said.'b'DGCA, in September, issued a draft for public consultation on the revised Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) on wet/damp lease operations by Indian operators to strengthen the regulatory framework for safety oversight of wet/damp lease operations.'b'The enhanced regulatory framework and changes proposed in the draft CAR includes restricting the wet/damp lease only from the countries having a reliable safety oversights system as well as standardisation of DGCA surveillance on such operations, the regulator said on September 12.'b'Among the proposed changes are that an aircraft can be wet-leased only from the ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation) contracting states having an average effective implementation score of 80 per cent or above (with a minimum of 70 per cent in each area) in the areas of personnel licensing, airworthiness and operations.'b'This should be as per the latest results of the ICAO Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP).'b''"), (9, "b'Govindas daughter Tina Ahuja opens up about how fathers fallout with David Dhawan impacted her: Kisine mera thekha nahi lekar rakha hai'", 'Null', '2024-12-04', "b'Though Govinda and director David Dhawan played pivotal roles in each others careers for years, their relationship, both professionally and personally, hit a rough patch in the early 2010s. This led to a long period of silence between the two, making their fallout one of the biggest in Bollywood. However, they reconciled last year, much to the joy of fans, as it opens the door for a potential future collaboration. Recently, Govindas daughter Narmada Ahuja alias Tina discussed the fallout between the two longtime friends and the widespread belief that it impacted her Bollywood debut.'b'Tina Ahuja, who made her acting debut in the romantic comedy Second Hand Husband (2015), didnt see her career take off as expected. Despite this, she doesnt feel any resentment towards Govinda and Dhawan for not offering her a career boost early on. Instead, she believes neither of them had any obligation to help her and feels that every person should build their own career.'b'Only in SCREEN | Vivek Oberoi says he became a businessman after facing Bollywood lobbies: They cant decide my future, my livelihood is'b'Interesting, but honestly, I felt like  why should they? Why should it be like In short, no one has taken on the responsibility of giving me a break. And why should they? If they felt there was something that would be right for me, they would have done it. Its not about that. What I feel is that you cannot be dependent on others all the time, she said during a chat with Bollywood Bubble.'b'And to be very honest, I dont even think about these things. Ive never thought, Oh, they should have launched me. No, I mean, kisine mera thekha nahi lekar rakha hai (nobody has taken my contract). At any given time, I just do what I feel is the best for me. Thats what Ive learned from my dad  never be dependent on anybody. You cannot be a cranky child at all, she added.'b'ICYMI | Govinda and I were paid less than the monkey in David Dhawans Ankhen, says Chunky Panday: It stayed in a five-star hotel'b'Govinda and Dhawans professional journey began with the filmmakers debut movie Taaqatwar (1989). They also worked in movies such as Swarg, Shola Aur Shabnam, Aankhen, Raja Babu, Coolie No 1, Saajan Chale Sasural, Banarasi Babu, Deewana Mastana, Hero No 1, Bade Miyan Chote Miyan, Haseena Maan Jaayegi, Kunwara, Jodi No 1, Kyo Kii Main Jhuth Nahin Bolta, Ek Aur Ek Gyarah and Partner. The twos last movie together as Do Knot Disturb (2009).'b'In 2015, Govinda announced that he had distanced himself from Dhawan, citing that the filmmaker hadnt supported him during a tough phase. I dont want to work with David Dhawan as he didnt stand by me during my bad patch, he was quoted by Times of India. A year earlier, Govinda issued a statement explaining his frustrations with Dhawan, revealing that he had come up with the idea for Chashme Buddoor (2013) in 2009, but Dhawan chose to cast Rishi Kapoor in the film instead.Despite their past issues, the two reconciled last year, emphasizing that they wished to let bygones be bygones.'b'Click for more updates and latest Bollywood news along with Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the world at The Indian Express.'b''"), (10, "b'Naga Chaitanya, Sobhita Dhulipala get married in Hyderabad; bride looks gorgeous in gold saree. See first pics'", 'Null', '2024-12-04', "b'Naga Chaitanya and Sobhita Dhulipala gotmarried in Hyderabad on Wednesday, December 4. The couple was set to tie the knot at 8:13 pm as per the muhuratam. A couple of pictures of the bride and groom surfaced online from their wedding rituals.'b'In the now-viral photos, Sobhita Dhulipala can be seen dressed in a beautiful golden kanjivaram saree. She complimented her look with traditional gold jewellery. A photo of the groom, Naga Chaitanya also surfaced online. In the picture, the Thandel star can be seen carrying out rituals as his father Nagarjuna stands beside him with a huge smile. Nagarjuna wore a traditional Pancha with kurta.'b'Congratulations anna.#NagaChaitanya #shobhitadhulipala #cheyso #Nagarjuna #Pushpa2ThRule #Pushpa2 pic.twitter.com/xBsjXsGxBB'b' jst saideep (@SaideepChe77551) December 4, 2024'b'The couples wedding took place at the Annapurna Studios, founded by Chaitanyas grandfather Akkineni Nageswara Rao in 1976. Visuals of the decked-up studio was shared online. The studio looked beautiful as it was decorated with orange, yellow, and white flowers as well as lights. A tight security was put in place outside the venue.'b''b''b'A post shared by SCREEN (@ieentertainment)'b'The Akkineni wedding was an intimate yet large affair, as shared by the grooms father Nagarjuna Akkineni. The wedding was a star-studded affair as the likes of Ram Charan and Mahesh Babu attended the special occasion. A source shared, With Ram Charan-Upasana and Mahesh Babu-Namrata among the notable guests, all roads truly lead to Hyderabad for this cultural and star-studded wedding at Annapurna Studios. Movie stars Prabhas, Allu Arjun and director SS Rajamouli also attended the wedding.'b' @AlwaysRamCharan & @KChiruTweets arrived at Annapurna Studios for #NagaChaitanya Wedding !  pic.twitter.com/KKF5JDcvxr'b' Raees | 10.01.2025  (@RaeesHere_) December 4, 2024'b'According to reports, the couples wedding rituals lasted for eight hours as they incorporated several age-old customs to honour their Telugu heritage. The couple kicked off their pre-wedding festivities on Thursday with their Raata Sthaapana and Mangalasnaanam ceremonies. Later, Sobhita shared some photos from the ceremonies on her social media as well.'b'ALSO READ | Naga Chaitanya-Sobhita Dhulipala Wedding LIVE Updates: First pics of the couple are out; Sobhita shines in golden saree'b'In an earlier chat with Zoom, Chaitanya spoke about bonding with Sobhitas family and said, Its been lovely getting to know Sobhita and her family the past few months, watching the families interact has been a joy. I am really looking forward to and excited for the wedding day, going through all the rituals and watching the families come together. He added, I am treated like a son. There has been a lot of comfort and many things in common from the get-go. Sobhita is a family girl, and we have all celebrated a couple of festivals together as well.'b'Naga Chaitanya and Sobhita Dhulipala announced their relationship after they got engaged on August 8. The couple shared a series of photos from their engagement ceremony which their families attended. Rumours of their relationship started surfacing in 2022 but the couple stayed mum about it. Many of their fans spotted them during their international vacations but the couple chose to keep their relationship private until they decided to tie the knot.'b''"), (11, "b'Shah Rukh Khan asked Who will look at me? while shooting Dons Aaj Ki Raat with Priyanka Chopra and Isha Koppikar, recalls actor'", 'Null', '2024-12-04', "b'Playing a pivotal role in Shah Rukh Khan and Priyanka Chopras Don remains one of the defining moments of Isha Koppikars career. However, in a recent interaction, Isha shared her disappointment at not being cast in Priyanka Chopras role, which she described as more powerful. Despite this, she also fondly reflected on her experience of shooting with Shah Rukh Khan, whom she referred to as god.'b'Speaking to Galatta India, Isha said, I believe Priyankas role was more powerful than mine. I would have given both my left and right arms for it. I am a black belt in Taekwondo. Ive been learning it for 25 years. I can give any heroine a run for their money as far as action is concerned, even if they are half my age. I understand Im good at it, but whats done is done.'b'Isha also expressed her disappointment at not being approached for Don 2, despite the sequel retaining most of the cast from the first film. She revealed, I did reach out to them. I was told they have already cast it. Its okay.'b'Reflecting on her journey to securing the role in Don, Isha credited Farhans father, Javed Akhtar, and his stepmother, Shabana Azmi, for recognizing her talent. They called me after watching my performance in D, in which I played Chunky Pandays wife and was kept hostage by gangsters while he was murdered in front of me, leaving me screaming and howling to save my husband. And I got a call from them, and my trophy for that was Don, she stated.'b'Though she didnt get the role she had hoped for in Don, Isha expressed immense gratitude and excitement for the opportunity to work alongside Shah Rukh Khan. SRK is like God for me, she said, admitting that she agreed to do the film primarily because she is an ardent fan of the superstar. She said, Even if I had a small part, I would have just played a tree standing next to Shah Rukh Khan in Don. He has so much energy and you derive that energy from him. He is so humble, fun. He kept saying funny one-liners and kept sharing anecdotes. While shooting Aaj Ki Raat he kept saying, What will I do between these two girls? Who will look at me? I dont even know how to dance. But his dancing is effortless. He is very smart.'b'Click for more updates and latest Bollywood news along with Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the world at The Indian Express.'b''"), (12, "b'Ranbir Kapoor is the only commercially viable artist of this generation: Ravi Dubey confirms hes playing Lakshman in Nitesh Tiwaris Ramayana'", 'Null', '2024-12-05', "b'Ramayana, starring Ranbir Kapoor and Sai Pallavi, is among the most-anticipated Hindi films of the next few years. The mythological drama will also star KGF actor Yash in the role of Ravana. While chatter around the film has been trickling in for months, the makers havent officially revealed its cast yet. Some months ago, a couple of pictures of Ranbir Kapoor, Sai Pallavi, Lara Dutta, and Arun Govil from the sets of the film were leaked online. In an interview, casting director Mukesh Chhabra had revealed that finding the correct actor to play Lakshman in the film proved to be a challenge, but they eventually found a worthy performer. Now, actor Ravi Dubey has confirmed his involvement in the film.'b'Recently, speaking to Connect Cine, Ravi Dubey also shared his experience of working with Ranbir Kapoor, whom he called the only commercially viable artist of this generation. Confirming his association with the film, Ravi Dubey said, I am playing Lakshman in the film. I finally have the permission from the makers to reveal this. I didnt talk about it all this while because I didnt want to give irresponsible statements and spoil Namit (Malhotra) and Nitesh sirs plans to reveal the cast.'b'Ravi Dubey will be sharing the screen with Ranbir Kapoor for the first time. Speaking about the actor, Ravi said, He is like the elder brother I never had. He added, He is kind, warm, he is the most immaculate professional that I have ever met. This is my first time working alongside a megastar like Ranbir Kapoor and his kindness, empathy, silence and grace towards everyone (is impeccable).'b'ALSO READ | Naga Chaitanya ties mangalsutra around Sobhita Dhulipalas neck, Akhil Akkineni whistles in happiness. Watch videos from SoChay wedding'b'Ravi added Ranbir works extremely hard behind the scene, but makes it all seem effortless. He said, Every time he is in front of camera, you will see he has been at it. He is the only commercial, viable artist of this generation.'b'Previously, speaking to Ranveer Allahbadia, Mukesh Chhabra had shared that casting the character of Lakshman proved to be a difficult task because established actors werent willing to play second-fiddle to Ranbir.'b'He said, It was the last role we cast. Weve chosen a young actor who has worked a lot in television; hes a lovely guy. We couldnt have found a better Lakshman. Im very happy that the people wed initially approached all said no. Two or three people said no, because they think that Ram and Lakshman will always have to be together. But Im very happy with the actor weve gone with, this is going to be his first film in Bollywood.'b'Ranbir Kapoor will be playing the role of Lord Ram, whereas Sai Pallavi will play the role of Sita. The film will be released in two parts. The first part will be released in 2026 and the second part in 2027. According to reports, Sunny Deol will play the role of Lord Hanuman. However, there has been no statement from the actor or the makers about the same.'b'Click for more updates and latest Bollywood news along with Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the world at The Indian Express.'b''"), (13, "b'Allu Arjuns Pushpa 2: Woman dies at premiere show in Hyderabad, police used force to control stampede-like situation'", 'Null', '2024-12-05', "b'A 39-year-old woman who attended the premiere of actor Allu Arjuns new film Pushpa 2 in Hyderabad died after a stampede-like situation unfolded at the venue, according to The Times of India. The incident happened on Wednesday evening outside Sandhya Theatre. The police personnel present at the venue reportedly resorted to lathicharge after the crowd got out of control.'b'The stampede-like situation left the woman and a child unconscious. After the woman fainted, police personnel conducted CPR on her and the child, and rushed them to the hospital, as reported by PTI on Wednesday evening. The report also stated that there was heavy crowd at the venue as people thronged to see the movie star. As per the police officials, the theatre did bot have the capacity to hold a large crowd. Police officials said that they used mild force to disperse the surging crowd.'b'ALSO READ | Vivek Oberoi says he became a businessman after facing Bollywood lobbies: They cant decide my future, my livelihood is'b'As per a video shared by ANI, the police can be seen resorting to lathicharge as they tried to control the crowd.'b'#WATCH | Telangana: Fans of actor Allu Arjun thronged the Sandhya theatre in Hyderabad ahead of the premiere show of his film Pushpa 2: The Rule tonight. Police resorted to mild lathicharge to control the crowd. pic.twitter.com/jhRvfB7D3m'b' ANI (@ANI) December 4, 2024'b'#WATCH | Hyderabad, Telangana | Actor Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna watched the premiere show of their film Pushpa 2: The Rule at Sandhya theatre. pic.twitter.com/MiuaY74DZ7'b' ANI (@ANI) December 4, 2024'b'Allu Arjun waved to his fans outside the theatre, and while he was inside, the security at the venue was increased. Later, when he tried to exit the venue, his car was surrounded by a sea of fans. He popped out of the sunroof of his vehicle to request the fans to move aside so he could leave.'b''"), (14, "b'Naga Chaitanya-Sobhita Dhulipala first wedding photos: Nagarjuna pens note welcoming Sobhita, remembers ANR during celebrations'", 'Null', '2024-12-04', "b'Naga Chaitanya-Sobhita Dhulipala wedding pics: Naga Chaitanya and Sobhita Dhulipala tied the knot in Hyderabad on Wednesday. Just like their engagement, Nagarjuna took to his X handle to share the couples first official photos as husband and wife. In the photos, the couple can be seen seeking the guests blessings, posing with Nagarjuna, as well as taking part in various wedding rituals.'b'Sharing the couples photos, Nagarjuna penned a note expressing his joy. He wrote, Watching Sobhita and Chay begin this beautiful chapter together has been a special and emotional moment for me. He congratulated the couple and welcomed Sobhita to his family. The veteran actor wrote, Youve already brought so much happiness into our lives.'b'As the wedding took place in the Annapurna Studios, Nagarjuna made mention of his late father Akkineni Nageswara Rao. He wrote, This celebration holds even deeper meaning as it unfolds under the blessings of ANR garus statue, installed to mark his centenary year. It feels as though his love and guidance are present with us in every step of this journey.'b'Watching Sobhita and Chay begin this beautiful chapter together has been a special and emotional moment for me.  Congratulations to my beloved Chay, and welcome to the family dear Sobhitayouve already brought so much happiness into our lives. 'b'This celebration holds pic.twitter.com/oBy83Q9qNm'b' Nagarjuna Akkineni (@iamnagarjuna) December 4, 2024'b'For her big day, the actress opted for a beautiful golden kanjivaram saree. She completed her look with traditional gold jewellery, gajra, alta and mehendi. Meanwhile, Naga Chaitanya was seen wearing a traditional pancha and kurta.'b'Naga Chaitanya and Sobhita Dhulipala got married in a lavish ceremony at Hyderabads Annapurna Studios in the presence of their family and friends. Nagarjuna Akkineni previously shared that this would be an intimate yet large wedding. He shared with Zoom, We are hosting wedding at the Annapurna Studios, the family studio that my father built. We planned it as an intimate ceremony, but even by limiting the guest list, we expect quite a large attendance. We have a large family, so does Sobhita.'b'Naga Chaitanya also spoke to the same publication and recalled his first meeting with Sobhita and shared that they first met in Mumbai during an event. I was in Mumbai for the launch of my OTT show, during that time, she did have a show with the same platform as well. We first interacted at the event hosted by the OTT platform, he said.'b''b''b'A post shared by Sobhita (@sobhitad)'b'Naga Chaitanya and Sobhita Dhulipala started dating each other a few years ago. The couple stayed mum about their relationship for a long time and made an official announcement only after they got engaged in August. At the time, Nagarjuna said that the couple had a hurried engagement because August 8 was an auspicious day for them. We chose this day because it was very auspicious. Both families consulted the Nakshatras, and when we were told August 8 was a very auspicious day, we decided to go ahead with it, he told Times Now and added, We chose to have a hurried engagement because it was an auspicious day, and since Chay and Sobhita are very sure that they want to marry, we said, lets do it.'b'Naga Chaitanya was previously married to actor Samantha Ruth Prabhu. The couple parted ways in 2021 after four years of marriage.'b''"), (15, "b'Naga Chaitanya ties mangalsutra around Sobhita Dhulipalas neck, Akhil Akkineni whistles in happiness. Watch videos from SoChay wedding'", 'Null', '2024-12-05', "b'Sobhita Dhulipala and Naga Chaitanya tied the knot on Wednesday at the Annapura Studios in Hyderabad. During the rituals, which went on for hours, the bride and the groom were seen wearing two different outfits. Chaitanyas father, actor Nagarjuna, shared photos of the newly married couple on X, expressing happiness. In the pictures shared by him, Sobhita wore a luxurious antique gold saree with real gold zari, and groom complemented her perfectly with the madhuparkham attire (a traditional white pancha featuring bold red border). A new video of the couple, wearing white and red outfits, has been shared online.'b'In the new video, Naga Chaitanya, dressed in white kurta and pancha, can be seen tying mangalasutra around Sobhita Dhulipalas neck. The video also featured Nagarjuna, Venkatesh Daggubati, and Daggubati Suresh Babu. Also present was the newly engaged Akhil Akkineni, who could be seen whistling, expressing his excitement over his brothers wedding. The video also showed Sobhita Dhulipala getting emotional after Chaitanya tied the mangalasutra around her neck. For this, she wore a traditional white saree with red border. She complimented her look with traditional temple gold jewellery.'b'See their Happy Faces Lots of love towards both of themHappy married life , Anna & Vadina @chay_akkineni & @sobhitaD #ChaySo #NagaChaitanya #SobhitaDhulipala pic.twitter.com/4jPxAT4mjs'b' NagaChaitanya_Fan (@chay_rohit_fan) December 5, 2024'b''b'Soon after the wedding ceremony concluded, the Akkineni family shared a statement. It read, The Akkineni family is delighted to announce the marriage of Naga Chaitanya and Sobhita Dhulipala in a grand and traditional Telugu wedding held at the iconic Annapurna Studios in Hyderabad, featuring an exquisite temple-themed setup.'b'ALSO READ | Naga Chaitanya-Sobhita Dhulipala first wedding photos: Nagarjuna pens note welcoming Sobhita, remembers ANR during celebrations'b'It further read, The wedding, held during the auspicious muhuratam of 8:13 PM, was a stunning display of Telugu traditions, with rituals performed under the guidance of elders.'b'Charan Anna at naga Chaitanya marriage @AlwaysRamCharan @chay_akkineni #RamCharan #ramcharan #RamCharan #ramcharanrevolt @AlwayzRamCharan @The_RamCharanFC pic.twitter.com/rkTKkVkOgV'b' Always Ram (@AlwaysRam2230) December 4, 2024'b''b'Speaking about the grand wedding, Nagarjuna said in a statement: This wedding is a deeply meaningful moment for our family. Having Chay and Sobhita start their journey at Annapurana Studios, surrounded by the love of family and friends, fills my heart with immense pride and gratitude. It is a celebration of love, tradition, and togetherness that reflects the values my father stood forfamily, respect, and unity. Seeing them begin this beautiful chapter is a moment of great joy for all of us, and we feel truly blessed to witness it.'b'The ceremony continued with rituals until 1 AM, offering a vibrant and heartfelt display of Telugu wedding traditions.'b''"), (16, "b'Sikandar Ka Muqaddar movie review: Neeraj Pandeys Netflix film is a rare beast in Bollywood, a pulpy character study with twists you dont see coming'", 'Shubhra Gupta', '2024-11-29', "b'A large jewellery exhibition in Mumbai becomes the site of a heist. A hysterical phone call raises alarm, gunfire is heard, the cops on duty herd the panicked gathering into a secluded area, and during the melee, a fistful of precious gems go missing.'b'Chief investigator Jaswinder Singh (Jimmy Shergill) zeroes in on three suspects. Long-time employee at a jewellery store Mangesh Desai (Mehta), his pretty colleague Kamini (Tamannaah Bhatia), and computer techie Sikandar Sharma (Avinash Tiwary) who is in a tearing hurry to leave the grounds once the all-clear is sounded. The more Jaswinder hounds them, the more they stick to their stand of having nothing to do with the robbery. Do they protest too much? Or are they truly innocent, proving Jaswinder with his vaunted instinct wrong, marring his blameless record for catching every single thief he has encountered?'b'Also read  Crew movie review: Kareena Kapoor, Tabu, Kriti Sanons easy-breezy comedy washes away stench of recent Bollywood duds'b'Neeraj Pandey has pulled off quite a heist with his new film in which he shares writing credits with Vipul K Rawal. The heeron ki chori is just a lead-in to a film which is more pulpy character study than out-and-out thriller, a rare beast in Bollywood. The two-hour plus duration is dotted with twists and turns you dont see coming, even as the whodunit-howdunit suspense keeps simmering: there are things I did twig on to, but the surprises kept coming, making things enjoyable.'b'That said, there are contrivances and plot-holes aplenty, and a few characters arent developed as much as they should have, but given the genre, you are willing to take them in your stride. Because the moment you are ripe for an eye-roll, something unexpected happens, and your attention is diverted, which is exactly what the filmmakers want.'b'The film swings through a fifteen year arc, from 2009 when the heist occurred, to the present when the mystery is sought to be unravelled through a series of flashbacks. How an event such as this can impact lives, and take them into unanticipated directions is woven through the telling, and the characters look and feel older, just as they should, even though some of the make-up looks plastered on.'b'The ensemble is the key to keep us watching. Jaswinders career has taken a dive, but his obsessive beliefs remain unshaken, a trait that has seen him part ways with his partner (Dutta, in a small role, leaves a big impact), and Shergill plays his character with the right degree of worn conviction. Tamannaah Bhatia proves that she doesnt need only dance numbers in horror comedies to get eyeballs: she can be stree enough. For a change, Rajeev Mehta gets more than just a forgettable role on the side. And Avinash Tiwary, flying high on his successful re-release of Laila Majnu, is, as ever, a delight.'b'Read more  Chor Nikal Ke Bhaaga movie review: Theres a lot going on in Yami Gautam, Sunny Kaushal film'b'Being on OTT means you can junk big stars in the pursuit of good story-telling. Or thats what it was supposed to mean, before the streamers also got sucked into vacuous starry propositions with zero results. Sikandar Ka Muqadaar, its title riffing off on one of Amitabh Bachchans late 70s blockbusters, is a solid example of how you can get a film going on the strength of plot and performance, with stars servicing the story, just the way it should be.'b'Sikandar Ka MuqaddarDirector  Neeraj PandeyCast  Avinash Tiwary, Jimmy Shergill, Tamannaah Bhatia, Rajeev Mehta, Ridhima Pandit, Divya Dutta, Ashrut JainRating  3/5'b''"), (17, "b'Allu Arjuns Pushpa 2 The Rule ushers in wildfire level of promotions: Is it a one-off or a glimpse into the future?'", 'Avinash Ramachandran', '2024-12-04', "b'The digital era has simplified a lot of things. Cinema watching isnt exactly a chore now even if some of the films might make one feel so. You dont have to walk to the nearby theatre in the hope that your favourite film has tickets to spare. Everything happens in a few clicks and an OTP. Recently, I decided to go old-school and walk to the theatre and book a ticket directly. A middle-aged woman in her 50s walked up to the same ticketing counter asking if a particular film was running in the theatre. When they replied in the negative, she pulled out a newspaper listing and said the ad said otherwise. Now, this helped in recalibrating the urban audiences belief that accessibility to cinema is at everyones fingertips. When you look at the returns of any big-ticket film, it is clear that the non-urban audience maketh the numbers. However, many times this loyal demographic is forgotten to cater to an audience that is seemingly growing distant from the kind of popcorn entertainment every industry dishes out with mind-boggling consistency. Probably why Allu Arjun, team Pushpa 2: The Rule, and Telugu cinema are changing the game.'b'ALSO READ: Pushpa 2 advance booking: Allu Arjun film sells almost 12 lakh tickets; trumps Baahubali, KGF 2 and RRR to sell fastest 1 million tickets'b'Manoj Bajpayee once said that the reason for the success of films like KGF and Pushpa is because the audience are searching for heroes that would tell them all is well, and winning in life will happen even for the ones who have hit rock bottom. This level of aspiration was seen in 1970s and 1980s Indian cinema where the heroes were catering to the masses, who are often overlooked as people whose tastes arent refined enough. However, that was never the case in South cinema where the biggest of stars redefined the term mass and made films that catered to everyone. Even when the characters did unimaginable things that defied all known laws of science, it was still a common man doing it. But there was a chasm between these believers, and their matinee idols.'b'At the turn of the 2010s, Hindi cinema understood the need to bridge this chasm, but the stars continued to remain inaccessible. Yes, they were there on the billboards, the advertisements, the social media campaigns, and of course, on the big screen. But the opportunity to see them in flesh and blood was becoming rare for the non-urban audience.'b'Heres the Pushpa 2 Trailer:'b'Tamil filmmaker Hari, the brain behind films like Singam and Saamy, went to the theatres of Tamil Nadu to promote his film, Yaanai. When asked about the reason behind his action, Hari said, It is important we let the patrons of the theatre know that our films are reaching them. It is important we respect them as an important stakeholder and urge them to come see our films. This is an important angle to the debate about watching films in theatres vs watching films on OTT. Of course, it can be argued that the makers make money anyway, and why should the OTT watchers be shamed for watching the films legally on a paid subscription. But before all that, there comes the issue of stars appeasing their audience and not alienating them.'b'This is probably why South cinema, especially Telugu films, which ignited the pan-Indian cinema of today, continues to reap rich benefits from this phenomenon. Even though recent blockbusters of Hindi cinema made a lot of money all across the country, it was for their original Hindi versions. Almost every star didnt consider all markets as equally important. They might have appeared on podcasts, social media reels, YouTube interviews, and even press interactions in select urban cities. But the returns are there for everyone to see. On the contrary, look at what is happening with the likes of Kalki 2898 AD, Devara Part-1, and the upcoming juggernaut, Pushpa 2.'b'Pushpa 2: The Rules most-recent event happened in Hyderabad with just two days left for the release. But where did they start their promotional campaign? It was in Patna, Bihar. Why should a Telugu films trailer be launched in Patna? But seeing the crowd that turned up would have been a massive shot-in-the-arm for whoever devised this strategy. It was a masterstroke. Just a week or so before that Ram Charan and team Game Changer landed in Lucknow to launch the teaser of the Shankar film. The writing was clear on the wall. You want to be a pan-Indian hero, you have to go everywhere to promote your film. You must provide the audience an incentive to come watch your film. And what is that incentive? Respect.'b'When stars descend to understand the ground reality, the support is massive. Allu Arjun was a bonafide superstar even before Sukumar brought Pushpa into his life. But what he is today has been the dream of many a superstar before him. Many achieved it in varying degrees, but Allu Arjun has blazed an important trail. He is walking on a carefully curated path that suits him like a colourful shirt on the torso of Pushpa. Look at how he changed his demeanour and speeches at every leg of the Pushpas promotional drive. Well, Allu Arjun is definitely not the first one to go all guns blazing with pan-Indian promotions. Yes, Yash did something similar with his KGF films, but it is important he is back soon to stay in the national consciousness. He has the stardom, but not the cushion of an Arjun who is more than just Pushpa for his fans outside Telugu cinema. Then, we saw Ram Charan, Jr NTR, and SS Rajamouli do it for RRR. We saw Kamal Haasan do it for Vikram. We saw Suriya and team do it for Kanguva. However, most of them couldnt really bridge that gap with audiences of those regions. It wasnt enough to be there, it was important to connect with them. That is why Pushpa 2: The Rule is an important chapter of this changing ecosystem.'b'In Patna, Allu Arjun paraphrased the iconic Jhukega nahi line, and said he will indeed bow down to the love of the people of Bihar. In Kochi, he called himself Mallu Arjun and spoke about how Kerala adopted him as their own, and gave rise to the term Allu Arjun Army. In Tamil Nadu, he called Chennai his home, and spoke about how he always wanted to do a massive function in the city to keep his connection strong with his home of 21 years. In Mumbai, he spoke about how he wanted to shave his beard off and hug his daughter. In Hyderabad, what transpired between an emotional Allu Arjun and Sukumar put to an end the chatter around their reported tiff. And in each of these events Rashmika Mandanna joined him to say just the right things to cater to each audience. She showcased her Hindi speaking skills, her fashion choices, her emotional side, and even touched upon her relationship status in these events. The makers also brought in Sreeleela for the last leg of the promotions that gave a big boost to the music of the film. It was also beautiful how these whirlwind promotions ensured the audience forgot the skirmishes between the producers and composer Devi Sri Prasad. What was beautiful was how Arjun danced with Rashmika only in Mumbai. What was beautiful was how Arjun danced on stage without being asked to in Chennai. Some might have been spontaneous, and some others might have been orchestrated like it was spontaneous. But make no mistake, everything was carefully planned, curated, and delivered like a boss!'b'It was almost like Allu Arjun, Rashmika and team Pushpa anticipated all the questions that might have been asked in individual interviews in each of these regions, and wrapped it all up in a nice bouquet and gave it to the audience. This move might not always work for every film and every actor, but it has definitely worked for Pushpa 2: The Rule and Allu Arjun. 'b'Without giving interviews to the media, be it on YouTube or newspapers, Pushpa 2: The Rule gave its audience an exclusivity that they dont always get. The people who saw them talk and dance in person were the only ones who got to see it all LIVE. They were the first audience. Whatever got printed, circulated, written online, and shared as YouTube videos were secondary. Imagine that high for an audience who dont always get to see these stars even this close.'b'ALSO READ: Making of Pushpa 2: BTS video reveals the true force behind this mass actioner isnt Allu Arjun or Fahadh Faasil'b'Of course, apart from Patna, even team Pushpa 2: The Rule only reached out to the big cities like Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kochi, but in a world where stars are increasingly getting elusive, Allu Arjun and Co proved to the world that there is a path that circumvents the middlemen. A path that takes your film directly to the ones that matter the most The people who would throng the theatres on the opening weekend even if the prices are jacked up. The people who would queue up on Day 1, burst crackers, light lamps, pour milk, and do everything in their power to celebrate their matinee idol. 'b'They might have done it anyway but why would they put in their hearts and souls in it this time? Because they understand why Pushpa wants to prove to the world that he is not just a fire, but a wildfire it is all about getting that respect. And when Allu Arjun told Patna that he would bow down to their love and adulation it wasnt a dialogue. It was a loud statement. A statement that would find many imitations soon, but thats okay because the brand will always belong to Pushpa. 'b''"), (18, "b'Karan Aujlas India concert tickets: Tauba Tauba singer outprices Diljit Dosanjh, Coldplay; tickets cost up to Rs 1 lakh'", 'Null', '2024-12-04', "b'Karan Aujla, who is starting to dominate the Punjabi pop music scene, is all set to start his tour in India and recently, the ticket prices of his concerts were made available on ticket aggregator BookMyShow. In the last few months, Indian audience has witnessed global stars like Diljit Dosanjh, Maroon 5 and Dua Lipa, and are looking forward to Coldplay performing in January 2025, but, interestingly, Karan Aujlas concert tickets are the most expensive out of the lot.'b'As per the ticket prices on BookMyShow, his show in Gurgaon, scheduled to take place on December 19, is selling the most expensive ticket at Rs 15 lakh. The details on the app explain that this would grant entry to 15 people, and they would get 8 luxury bottles, 2 premium champagne bottles, unlimited beers, energy drinks/mixers. The most expensive ticket for his Mumbai show also costs the same. This basically means that the VVIP Diamond pass costs Rs 1 lakh per person, which is almost twice the cost of the lounge pass at Diljit Dosanjhs show in Mumbai, which is scheduled for December 19. But similar ticket for Karan Aujlas show, granting entry to 15 people, is available for Rs 3 lakh in Kolkata, and in Jaipur and Hyderabad, it is available for Rs 6 lakh and Rs 6.5 lakh respectively.'b'In comparison to Diljit, the tickets are mighty expensive as the singers upcoming show in Mumbai, on December 17, was selling the most expensive tickets for Rs 60,000, and the cheapest ticket for Rs 4,999. Even when compared to Coldplay, the tickets are significantly expensive. The most expensive tickets that were sold for Coldplay for their show in Ahmedabad are for Rs 35,000. The cheapest tickets here are available for Rs 2,500.'b'The recently held concert of Maroon 5 in Mumbai sold the highest priced ticket for Rs 20,000, with the cheapest ticket being sold for Rs 5,000. For Dua Lipas show that was recently held in Mumbai, the most expensive ticket available to the fans was for Rs 45,000, with the cheapest ticket being sold for Rs 3,500.'b'The cheapest ticket for Karan Aujlas show is available in Ahmedabad for Rs 2749, although the venue for the same has not been announced yet. This show is being organised for December 31.'b''"), (19, "b'Vivek Oberoi says he became a businessman after facing Bollywood lobbies: They cant decide my future, my livelihood is'", 'Nawaz Javed Kochra', '2024-12-04', "b'Actor Vivek Oberoi burst on the screen with films such as Company and Saathiya. Establishing himself as an actor who can play the boy-next-door and a dreaded gangster with the same ease, it appeared that the actor was here to stay, but in Bollywood, things can be ephemeral despite talent and hard work. The actor faced a dull phase despite his films working and had to sit at home for a long period of time. Vivek, however, had his Plan B in place all along. Twenty-two years later, Vivek is a successful entrepreneur running multiple businesses across industries, which he juggles with his film career. He lives in Dubai and keeps his passion for acting alive still. In an exclusive conversation with SCREEN, the actor revisits his journey, and his Chocolate Boy era, and also reveals how he had to switch to business to counter the efforts of a lobby that existed within the industry.'b''b''b'A post shared by Vivek Oberoi (@vivekoberoi)'b'Also Read: Vivek Oberoi says he became a salesman at age 10 because of his father: It could be electronics, perfumes; I would keep profits'b'Talking about facing concerted efforts against him in Hindi film industry, Vivek shared, I have done about 67 projects in 22 years, but the industry is a very insecure place. You could be performing well, winning awards, and doing your job as an actor, but at the same time, you can get no work for other reasons. After 2007 when I did Shootout At Lokhandwala, the Ganpat song went viral, I won awards, so I expected a lot of offers, but I didnt get any. I sat at home for 14 to 15 months after the success of the film. It was only around the 2009 mark when I decided I didnt want to be completely dependent on this but build my economic independence. I didnt want to be in a situation where a lobby could decide your future. Somebody could bully you into doing something because they controlled things.'b'Sharing how venturing into business gave him the independence he always needed, Vivek also added, Business was always a Plan B, and I decided cinema will be my passion. My livelihood should be my business, which helped me earn my independence and get out of that whole trap of lobbies, or having to sell your soul or suck up to somebody that is no great way to live at least for me. Some people make a living out of it but for me, thats not the case.'b''b''b'A post shared by Vivek Oberoi (@vivekoberoi)'b'Currently, Vivek has three films in the pipeline and is promoting his firm Solatrio that sells lab-grown diamond jewelry. But sharing one lesson he has learned through his 22-year-long journey in Bollywood, the actor says, I was stressed about so many things, took so much tension, it was just not worth it. Life finds its way to sort it out, there is a karmic score  you do good, you will get that back; if you do bad, you will receive it too. Somebody may seem very successful and important, but inside he could be empty, sad, and lonely, thats their score. Life is about choices, even today if you choose good, your life will start changing from tomorrow. It is we who dont do things then we blame god and destiny. Its more like we have become human doings rather than human beings.'b'He also added, I am at an age and stage in my life where money, fame, success, glory are something I have seen a lot. So its not life-changing anymore. Sharing further updates on his professional front, Vivek said, On the business front, I am taking Solitario public early next year, I want to go global with it. On the film front, I have three movies signed up, the first one is Masti 4. I am having a lot of fun cracking up between me, Riteish, Aftaab, and Induji, Milap Zaveri is directing it. Its been 20 years since the first one, a lot of friends are coming together. We are shooting in March or April so I guess it should release in 2025. The other 2 are not announced yet but I am excited about them.'b'Click for more updates and latest Bollywood news along with Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the world at The Indian Express.'b''"), (20, "b'Moana 2 movie review: The Moana sequel goes adrift'", 'Shalini Langer', '2024-11-29', "b'Moana 2 movie review: Once that one-of-her-kind Disney not a princess had proven that she was a queen of the seas, Moana (Aulii Cravalho, reprising her role from the 2016 film) was bound to get some new adventures. Moana 2 is as new as it gets these days  that is, not very new  in the era of sequels, prequels and multiverse-quels.'b'As Moana ventures into a new mission, a demi-goddess who helps her, Matangi (Awhimai Fraser), does drill into her with a song whose refrain goes, There is always another way. However, Disney for one isnt trying it.'b'So we get a lot of what we had in the truly entertaining Moana, particularly the Polynesian teen heroine and the braggart demi-god whom she befriends Maui (Dwayne Johnson). Several new characters fill the screen but few make an impression. Moni (Hualalai Chung) is just a mini-Maui, and pointless once Maui himself comes around.'b'The one new character who you want to see and hear more of is Loto (Rose Matafeo), an inventor who keeps fiddling with their rackety, Moana-led canoe so that it can brave whatever the evil Nalo throws at them. But given that it is her brains which take the motley crew put together by Moana as far as they get, Loto gets to be little more than a sidekick to Moana.'b'Also Read | Woman of the Hour movie review: Anna Kendricks inventive serial killer thriller takes stabs in the dark'b'The weakest link is that we dont even get to see Nalo except as a snarling voice or a towering silhouette in the sky, though if you wait around for the credits at the end, you get a glimpse. Which is one way of saying that there will be a Moana 3.'b'The 2016 Moanas biggest achievement was that it gave Disney fans, particularly young girls, a hero who looked nothing like they had seen before  it was a she, with dark, curly hair that was not blonde, a waist that had some substance, and friends who did not include a handsome prince.'b'With that established, Moana 2 needed to find some uncharted waters. The search for a hidden island, Motufetu, sunk by Nola to ensure that different peoples of the ocean stayed apart, is not really a brainwave.'b'One can be happy for Moana, especially her little sister, and especially for a brief moment they share with a playful ocean. The coconut minions draw some chuckles while they last.'b'But the songs are mostly dead in the water, and the jokes even more so. At one point, Maui drops the word butt dial. And goes on to explain: That would make sense in 2,000 years. Right.'b'Moana 2 movie directors: David G Derrick Jr, Jason Hand, Dana Ledoux MillerMoana 2 voice cast: Aulii Cravalho, Dwayne Johnson, Hualalai Chung, Rose Matafeo, David Fane, Awhimai FraserMoana 2 movie rating: 2 stars'b''"), (21, "b'Woman of the Hour movie review: Anna Kendricks inventive serial killer thriller takes stabs in the dark'", 'Rohan Naahar', '2024-11-29', "b'Sometimes, the wiser thing to do is to scale down. Not every film needs to be a sweeping epic, especially not one that demands a tight telling. Directed by the debutante Anna Kendrick, the darkly humorous thriller Woman of the Hour is based on an intriguing real-life story, but suffers from an under-confident execution. The movie wouldve worked wonderfully as a claustrophobic chamber piece, but feels compelled to jump across timelines and juggle between characters with an haphazardness that only does it harm. Kendrick is like an overeager Indian mum, checking the pressure cooker more often than she needs to, thereby releasing all the steam.'b'She also stars in the central role of Sheryl Bradshaw, a struggling actress who, in a moment of desperation, agrees to participate in a shady dating reality show. Its a paid gig, she tells herself, after having blown yet another audition. Faced with the option of packing her bags and quitting Hollywood altogether, Sheryl gives herself a lifeline by signing on to appear as the object of desire on The Dating Game. Shot on the outskirts of Tinseltown, the show attracts an odd assortment of contestants and audience members. But Sheryl couldnt care less; she wants to get through the day, collect her cash, and never look back. Little does she know that one of the three male contestants vying for her attention on the show is a serial killer.'b'Also read  Sector 36: Does Vikrant Masseys exploitative Netflix movie really expect us to nod in agreement with a serial killer?'b'Rodney Alcala had already murdered multiple women before he appeared on a 1978 episode of The Dating Game as a contestant. He is made to sit next to two other men with noticeably different personalities, separated from Sheryl by a barrier. Rodney has the most charming responses to Sheryls increasingly playful queries, and it doesnt take him too long to have both her and the crowd eating out of his hand. This couldve been the entire film. We couldve remained inside the garish confines of the studio, the tension building, the exchanges getting more colourful.'b'But the movie has no interest in being experimental. Anna Kendrick keeps cutting back to Roberts murders after every round  its like Slumdog Millionaire if it were directed by David Fincher. And every time we leave the show to witness another murder scene, or to follow a female audience member who appears to recognise Rodney, Kendrick effectively slits her own movie in the throat. Of course, there is a strong reason behind this structure. The movie wants you to develop a dislike for Rodney, which you wouldnt have otherwise. By the time we hit murder number three, were meant to be shaking our fists at the screen, screaming at Sheryl to be careful of his tricks.'b'Played by the eerily effective Daniel Zovatto, Rodney is a textbook groomer. Later evidence showed that he also preyed on young girls, and might have killed more than 100 people before, spoiler alert, being arrested. He went on to be popularly known as The Dating Game Killer, and remains an object of tremendous interest in the sort of communities where people like him are studied. But Woman of the Hour doesnt really examine him psychologically. Rodney appears to enjoy toying with his prey, and in the films admittedly harrowing opening scene, strangles an unsuspecting woman before reviving her, and then throttling her again.'b'Read more  Indian Predator The Diary of a Serial Killer review: New Netflix true crime series is a great improvement over The Butcher of Delhi'b'Anna Kendrick has fashioned what couldve been a formulaic serial killer movie into something of a female empowerment story, although its debatable if it qualifies as one. It might have one scene of violence against women too many. Her performance as Sheryl, unsurprisingly, is superior to her command over filmmaking tone. Kendrick instills in the character the same neurotic energy that she brought to her breakout role as Jessica in the Twilight movies. She has, of course, evolved tremendously since then. Woman in the Hour also works as a Substance-like showbiz satire, with the hilarious Tony Hale appearing as the obnoxious host of the reality show. But the films observations about both sexism and survival are rather superficial, and thats a crying shame.'b'Woman of the HourDirector  Anna KendrickCast  Anna Kendrick, Daniel Zovatto, Tony HaleRating  2.5/5'b''"), (22, "b'Shah Rukh Khan was reluctant to play second fiddle to Leonardo DiCaprio: Taxi Driver writer Paul Schrader reveals why epic crossover film fell apart'", 'Null', '2024-12-05', "b'In a fascinating revelation, acclaimed director Paul Schrader has shed light on his abandoned project Xtreme City, which would have marked Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khans debut in the West. The film, which also had Leonardo DiCaprio attached, was ultimately shelved due to Shah Rukhs loss of interest midway, according to Schrader. Schrader is a renowned American screenwriter and film director, known for his work on iconic films like Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, The Last Temptation of Christ and American Gigolo. With a career spanning over five decades, Schrader has established himself as a prominent figure in Hollywood.'b'During a recent podcast appearance, Schrader reflected on the film that never got made, revealing that the trio had initially shown great enthusiasm for the project. They even met in Berlin to discuss the film, with Martin Scorsese on board as producer. However, Schrader claimed that Shah Rukhs commitment to the project began to waver, ultimately leading to its demise. The director also revealed that the film was to be co-written by Mushtaq Shiekh.'b'Schrader noted that Shah Rukh, had he done the film, would have had to play second banana to DiCaprio, something hes never done. Shah Rukh is the boss. He hires directors. Sometimes he hires multiple directors: hell hire somebody for the musical number; hell hire somebody else for the action; hell hire somebody else for the personal-relationship scenes. He can do that. He has never really worked under the harness of an auteur, and that, I could see, was starting to grate on him. And he had never done a film in the West before, and he had never been a second banana to somebody like Leo before, Schrader explained in the Pod Casty for Me podcast.'b'Schrader also shared the films plotline, which would have seen Shah Rukh play a gangster confronted by an American police officer, played by DiCaprio, after saving his life in India. Despite his efforts to keep the project afloat, Shah Rukh ultimately lost interest, which eventually led to DiCaprio losing interest.'b'Also read  Pushpa 2 Movie Review Live Updates: Woman dies in stampede at Allu Arjuns film screening in Hyderabad, son injured'b'He shared, Bit-by-bit, I wrote the script. I went to Mumbai several times to see him and be with him  I could feel the ground slowly eroding underneath him. So finally his commitment was provisional, and then once his commitment went from firm to provisional, Leos went from firm to provisional. Now you have two provisional commitments, which means you have no commitment at all.'b'Click for more updates and latest Hollywood News along with Bollywood and Entertainment updates. Also get latest news and top headlines from India and around the World at The Indian Express.'b''"), (23, "b'Sorgavaasal movie review: Terrific performances keeps this meandering prison thriller within its boundaries'", 'Avinash Ramachandran', '2024-11-29', "b'Sorgavaasal Movie Review: Prison films are tough to crack, but the allure of this genre is understandable. It is essentially a chamber drama where every character is unpredictable, and the audience is tuned to expect them to get violent at any time. These characters are ticking time bombs, and the setting allows the writers to explore the human psyche and deliver a solid character-driven drama. With this base in place, one can add the required flavours like romance, sentiment, revenge, and even comedy, and a prison film will have the space for it all. What really matters is the proportion of each, and for the longest time in Sorgavaasal, debutant director Sidharth Vishwanath, along with his co-writers Tamizh Prabha and Ashwin Ravichandran, get it right. However, despite perfectly building a Virumaandi meets Vada Chennai narrative to a crescendo, they falter at the end. But the characters, and its effective portrayal, ensure Sorgavaasal escapes without crashing and burning.'b'Sorgavaasal opens with jailer Kattabomman (Karunaas) saying this was a job he didnt want to do. It is a job that neither helps him gain respect nor make money with bribes. Then, he lets us know that given a choice between being a servant in heaven and a king in hell, many of us would choose the latter. And who is he telling all of this to? It is investigating officer Ismail (Natty), who is trying to understand the machinations of a bloody prison riot that ended with 45 deaths, and 60 reported missing cases. Through this investigation, we are introduced to the various guards of this not-so-pearly gates of heaven.'b'ALSO READ: In cinema, people are good to you as long as they think you are below them: Singapore Saloon actor RJ Balaji'b'We have the dreaded gangster Sigamani (a terrific Selvaraghavan), who wants to denounce his ways and walk the path of god, thanks to the words of fellow inmate Kendrick (an effective Samuel Robinson). He has his trusted aides, the hot-headed Tiger Mani (Hakkim) and the calm and non-violent Seelan (Anthonydasan Jesuthasan). It is into this well-organised world inside the prison that a pushcart restaurant owner Parthiban (RJ Balaji in his career-best performance) is thrown in for a crime he didnt commit.'b'Sorgavaasal is essentially an insight into the prison system of India, which is burdened by the other systems in place. Ask prison wardens why the jails are overflowing? Theyll point at the justice system. Ask the justice system why prisons arent establishments where people change, theyll point at the conditions in the prison. Ask the government why there arent enough funds allocated for the same? Theyll point at both, and the vicious cycle continues. However, it is different on celluloid, right? One can dangle the glimmer of hope. And it is this hope that fuels the life of Parthiban inside the grey walls that close in on him with every passing day. As Cooker Basheer (an excellent Balaji Sakthivel) tells him, Dont cook tasty food everyday you are not supposed to feel at home in a jail. This sentiment hits us at the core, however, such moments come sparingly in a film that is instead focused on wringing out a dark and gory thriller from a wafer-thin premise.'b'Heres the trailer:'b'Yes, the characters are engaging, but only a handful get enough emotional heft. Probably why, when all hell breaks loose in the last act featuring the prison riot, we are at an arms length from the characters. But till then, Sidharth runs a tight ship, and points to RJ Balaji for not wanting to be at the centre of the narrative at all points. Make no mistake, the film is still about Parthiban, but the movie is also about the other inmates of the prison, and how each of them are just putting on a facade to mask the pain of just surviving a life, and never living it.'b'Sidharth and Co do a good job of establishing the core of Parthiban using just limited scenes. Take, for instance, the beautiful arc for Parthiban featuring his mother (Porkodi) and fiance (Saniya Iyappan). It gives us pointers about Parthibans psyche, and why the police might have been quick to brand him a murderer. However, it never overstays its welcome. There is also a scene in the prison involving Parthiban and his prison friend Rangu (Maurish). Just when a saviour complex creeps in, it is beautifully shut down. Such flourishes are the highlights of Sorgavaasal, which works wonderfully as a character study of people thrown into a life in prison.'b'Interestingly, Sorgavaasal doesnt go the Criminal Justice way to gradually tell us about the struggles of being in prison. It briefly touches upon the free-flow of drugs, sexual violence, and cliques in a prison before getting into the core plot of a strict Superintendent (Sharaf U Dheen) trying to bring in order and enforce his superiority among criminals lodged inside the prison. His complete disdain for the lowly criminals and his manipulative methods to make people do his bidding forms the second act of the film, which augurs well for Sorgavaasal. Even when newer players are brought into the mix, the film never feels bloated because there is something interesting always underway. Since the movie is more Virumaandi than Vada Chennai, we arent really bothered by the hows or whys of the events. We are just witness to a series of events unfolding, and points to the makers for ensuring these are gripping.'b'There arent many standout dialogues, and it is mainly because they arent designed to be. There is a beautiful conversation about god between Siga and Kendrick where there is a sense of showboating and a lack of subtlety. But it still works because the characters are memorable, and wonderfully portrayed. It all comes together with the brilliant background score of Christo Xavier, who not only delivers on the adrenaline-pumping score when things go haywire, but gives the film much-needed calmness and silence through his work in the not-so-flamboyant portions. Cinematographer Prince Anderson does an excellent job of showing S Jayachandrans prison set in all its greyness, and devoid of a semblance of hope. The elaborate action sequences in the final act give us a strong feeling of witnessing violence on a grand scale. However, it doesnt always come across, and the true expanse of the prison isnt really felt.'b'ALSO READ: Suriya sir, dont join electoral politics urges RJ Balaji, Karthik Subbaraj praises Kanguva star for not taking stardom and fans for granted'b'As the credits rolled in Sorgavaasal, and Christos ominous score takes centrestage, I couldnt help but be impressed with how the film doesnt really take sides. It would have been easy to make the police the antagonists to the prisoners considering Balaji plays one. Since the film isnt just about Balajis character, the decision to step back and just show us the machinations of each provides a lot more insight than nudging us to understand the writers intentions. Do you feel bad for Parthiban and other jail inmates? Do you feel bad for Kattabomman, Sunil Kumar and their ilk who are forced to bell the cat? Do you feel bad for the harbingers of justice who are mere smokescreens in the halls of power? It felt like Sorgavaasal reminds us of how simple it is to slip up from our own sheltered lives, because at the end of the day, all of us are mere pawns in a system a system that thrives in the belief that no one has time to sit and ponder about the ones that are left behind in a path that, more often than not, is less a path, and more a vortex.'b'Sorgavaasal movie director: Sidharth VishwanathanSorgavaasal movie cast: RJ Balaji, Karunaas, Sharaf U Dheen, Selvaraghavan, Saniya IyappanSorgavaasal movie rating: 3 stars'b''"), (24, "b'Bitcoin surges to record high topping $100,000, thanks to Trumps win and optimism over his crypto plans'", 'Null', '2024-12-05', "b'Bitcoin rose above $100,000 for the first time on Thursday, buoyed by Donald Trumps victory in the US Presidential race spurring expectations that his administration will create a conducive environment for cryptocurrencies.'b'Bitcoin has more than doubled in value this year and is up about 45% in the four weeks since Trumps victory, which also saw a slew of pro-crypto lawmakers being elected to Congress.'b'It last traded at $100,027, up 2.2% on the previous session, after earlier rising as high as $100,277.'b'Were witnessing a paradigm shift. After four years of political purgatory, bitcoin and the entire digital asset ecosystem are on the brink of entering the financial mainstream, Mike Novogratz, founder and CEO of US crypto firm Galaxy Digital, told news agency Reuters.'b'This momentum is fuelled by institutional adoption, advancements in tokenization and payments, and a clearer regulatory path, he added.'b'Justin DAnethan, a Hong Kong-based independent crypto analyst, told Reuters: Bitcoin crossing $100,000 is more than just a milestone; its a testament to shifting tides in finance, technology, and geopolitics. The figure not that long ago dismissed as fantasy, stands as a reality.'b'On Wednesday, Donald Trump said he would nominate Paul Atkins to run the Securities and Exchange Commission. Atkins, a former SEC commissioner, has been involved in crypto policy as co-chair of the Token Alliance, which works to develop best practices for digital asset issuances and trading platforms, and the Chamber of Digital Commerce.'b'A slew of crypto companies including Ripple, Kraken and Circle are jostling for a seat on Trumps promised crypto advisory council.'b'Billionaire Elon Musk, one of the biggest backers of Trump during his campaign, is also a proponent of cryptocurrencies. Bitcoins rebound from a slide below $16,000 in late 2022 has been rapid, boosted by the approval of US-listed bitcoin exchange-traded funds in January this year.'b'More than $4 billion has streamed into US-listed bitcoin exchange-traded funds since the election.'b'In fact, not just bitcoin, Dogecoin too has seen a surge and has grown by more than 150 per cent since Trumps victory. Dogecoin, which is referred to as memecoin in crypto parlance, is now the sixth biggest cryptocurrency by market cap.'b'High taxes on cryptocurrencies have put off investors in India and they might not be reacting the way their American counterparts will.'b'In 2018, the Central Board of Direct Taxes had submitted a draft scheme to the finance ministry for banning virtual currencies and a month later, the RBI restrained banks from dealing in cryptocurrencies, a decision that had to be reversed by the Supreme Court in 2020.'b'Despite this, the banking regulator has been vocal about its problems with crypto-assets, having identified them as a macro-economic risk. In July 2022, underscoring that the RBI had sought a ban, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in Parliament that international collaboration would be needed for any effective regulation or ban on cryptocurrency as the digital currency is borderless in nature.'b'The government had, in 2022, imposed a tax on any income from transfer of any virtual digital asset at a rate of 30 per cent, along with a 1 per cent tax deduction at source (TDS) on each transaction.'b''")]